um welcome welcome to everyone to our
final meetup on 20 of 2020
for the ipv5s project we have a lot of
presentations today
a few reminders first um super excited
to have you all here
remember that this and all events
happening about by the ipfs community
code of conduct
please do check that out if you have any
questions make sure to always be
friendly and welcoming to everyone in
our community
if you have any questions while people
are speaking please try and use the q a
box at the bottom
of your screen to ask any questions so
that our
lovely speakers can quickly respond to
anything there
we may not have time for live questions
but folks will get to you in the chat
um there's a ton of these events over
the past year please check out our
youtube
page for all of the the recordings we
will put these up on youtube
lickety-split
and so you'll you'll be able to see
those there if you have to drop off in
the
in the middle of things and as always
please give us an email if you'd like to
speak at future ones with these
all right today's agenda as i mentioned
we have a ton of speakers and they're
going to have to go real real fast
so first we get to have working group
updates on what they've achieved over
the past year
um we had a little bit of you know shift
within the working groups themselves so
some people may be speaking for working
groups from the beginning of q1 i know
that january 2020 feels
insanely long ago at this moment but
we'll try and give a good round up on
all of the amazing things that were
shipped across ipves project
in the past year and then we also have
the the kind of
part two of our agenda for today is a
lot of awesome lightning talks from
people across the ecosystem
textile pinata three box birdie and
fleeq telling us about all of the new
things happening
on their projects and in their corners
of the ipvs ecosystem to
give us a look back at all of the
amazing things that happened
today's theme is reflecting on 2020 so
expect that as a common theme across all
of the presentations
that you will hear today um to give you
a little bit of a preview i have a
couple
like i think four top level things and
highlights that i wanted to share
about kind of what i see looking back
from the end
of 2020 on all of the things that we
have accomplished this year that i think
really stand out
and put the project kind of on a new
trajectory as we go into 2021
so first off looking all the way back to
i think the february march
timeline of ipfs a thing that we saw at
the beginning of this year
was a real explosion of people putting
their websites
up on the d web and making this 10x
easier
web3 has always had a little bit of a
challenge when it comes to
actually making it accessible to all
types of developers to make use of this
new technology
we really saw this starting to cross the
chasm great work from folks like ens
unstoppable domains and fleeq to make
this really accessible and easy for
people to take any website
and throw it up there were new tools for
uploading to ipfs there were templates
um there was you know github
integrations forestry
like it's it makes your life so much
easier as a developer
and we really saw that that turned into
many many more people being attracted to
this space and being
able to make use of it um at the same
time we also
saw some some pretty cool um new things
being built in the the web app space and
so
origen made it really easy to put up a d
web
shop and brave use that for their swag
store
and then opera went a step further and
full-on embedded ipfs
colon slash flash support on their
android browser so now you can resolve
ipvs links directly without any you know
any extra installs any extra anything
so that was a really cool thing that we
saw at the beginning of this year kind
of shifting
who's able to participate in the
ecosystem
but we saw kind of uh you know second
second part of the
first quarter so kind of the may made
timeline
was huge performance gains and this had
all been in the works for a really long
time and was very much based on the
the feedback and pain points that had
been being experienced across the whole
ecosystem
but looking at some of the the
bottlenecks in use of ipfs
and making large imp performance
improvements that
really put those to rest which is
phenomenal the big focus here was
content routing or finding stuff in the
network
and how to make it real fast and hey
congrats to the whole team we did make
it real fast i'm sure you'll hear more
about this
from jacob later but we went from you
know
many many seconds can't even benchmark
how how many seconds it was
down to 1.5 on uh for our 95th
percentile
of uh seconds to find stuff in the ips
network so that's
phenomenal and a really amazing um
accomplishment for this team to really
take take an area of pain and turn it
into something that
people don't have to worry about and and
the big thing for that goes to test
ground
which was a new p2p network uh
simulation tool that we were able to use
to benchmark
all of the improvements and protocol
changes we were making
and and help really drive our attention
to the points that needed optimizing
and make sure that it was you know uh
actually going to solve the needs of
people
in a large hundred thousand node network
uh which is a big deal
um toward the second half of this year a
big focus over the past couple of ipves
releases
um and some of the work in uh lapid p
land as well has been around
standardization and hardening
um so as you probably have have seen in
the release notes a ton of new things
launched within the protocol to bring us
up to new standards we have quick by
default we have tls 1.3 by default
we added noise across both uh js
and go implementations and and this is
now
across all of the different
implementations within the p2p and we
deprecated sekio
so that's like a huge level up for the
protocol in terms of just having really
good
stable standards um and then kind of on
the lip p2p side there was a big focus
on hardening with gossip sub v 1.1
hardening that for all sorts of
blockchain use cases for eth2 and for
falcoin
um and then for the ipfs the dht module
as used in ipfs
to make that hardened against all sorts
of eclipse attacks
and finally here just in the past couple
of months hey
some in the past couple of weeks um
we've seen some awesome protocols
launching utilizing these building
blocks to make them accessible to other
communities and to
take them another step forward in terms
of providing lots of value
so falcoin audius and eth2 have all been
launching
using um ipfs and libpdp in the case of
e2 as kind of
the core building blocks um of their
networks and that's been super exciting
to see and we have a great time working
with these communities and
um we are much stronger together so
thank you so much for all of the
uh improvements that you helped make to
these core building blocks so more
people can gain the value from them as
well
would be remiss if i didn't give you a
tiny peek into some of these
year-over-year metrics
it's really cool to look back and be
like wow this has grown so much
um just looking at the the number of
people who are
making use of the ipfs network every
week we've seen a 4x increase in 2020
which is super cool
um we've now have about two million
unique weekly users accessing our ipfs
http gateway
which is just one many so who knows how
many there would be if we all compared
notes
on all of the many many uh http gateways
that are being run from many different
providers
um and there's hundreds of thousands of
nodes interoperating in the ipfs
network every single week um and now we
get to welcome a whole crew of new
people who are developing the ecosystem
as well
thanks to a lot of awesome events um
like hack fs
and um the the git coin apollo and
other things like that we've seen
hundreds of new dapps enter the ipf's
ecosystem building really cool stuff
and really taking it the next step
forward so we're excited to have even
more of those folks
presenting at my peoples meetups over
the next year
all right um quick reminder in case this
doesn't get brought up anywhere else
thank you so much to everyone who's
participating in our project planning
process
there are over 20 probably i'm out of
date at this point because i think
there's more being added every single
night
but um as of last counting 27 themes
submitted to the project planning
process
um commenting and participating in here
um i think over 35 community members are
participating
come make your voice heard um upvote
some of the things that you think are
great for the
important initiatives that we need to
pay attention to
and we're going to be continuing to
synthesize themes and try and pull out
the most important bits
make some really hard decisions about
where we can spend our time where we
have bandwidth
um and kind of over the rest of uh
december and beginning of january
mid-january we'll try and nail some of
those things down in the course of doing
some of the
workshops with people across the
community and then flesh out our
how in probably the early february time
frame so that we
know exactly what we are going to take
on and deliver to to folks across the
ecosystem
um so big thank you to khadir and david
who are helping run this process it's
phenomenal
you may hear more about it in a second
i'm not sure but
please do participate it's been
phenomenal